SOURCE DOCUMENT
title        : Statement of Additional Information (SAI) - extract: Rights of Unit Holders / Disclosure and Reports (Account Statements, Consolidated Account Statement, MFCentral)
scheme       : Cross-scheme
source_type  : guide
publisher    : HDFC Asset Management Company Limited
source_url   : https://files.hdfcfund.com/s3fs-public/2025-09/SAI%20with%20updated%20Addendum%20dated%20September%2025%2C%202025.pdf?VersionId=wYHYr8mNBYkj28b0m6_KtwBr9S25IeIa
doc_date     : 2025-06-30 (addendum dated 2025-09-25)
as_of        : 2025-09-25
pages        : 85, 86, 169 (PDF index)
retrieved    : 2026-09-28
================================================================================

HDFC MF SAI - dated June 30, 2025
77
For more details, investors are advised to refer to ‘Scheme
Information Document’ of the respective Scheme(s) of
HDFC Mutual Fund.
MF Central
As per clause 16.6 of Master Circular, to comply with the
requirements of RTA inter-operable Platform for enhancing
investors’ experience in Mutual Fund transactions/service
requests, the Qualified RTAs, currently, Kfin Technologies Private
Limited (“KFintech”) and Computer Age Management Services
Limited (“CAMS”) have jointly developed MFCentral - A digital
platform for Mutual Fund investors (hereinafter referred to as
“MFCentral” or “the Platform”).
MFCentral is created with an intent to be a one stop portal/
mobile app for all Mutual fund investments and service-related
needs that significantly reduces the need for submission
of physical documents by enabling various digital/physical
services to Mutual fund investors across fund houses subject
to applicable Terms and Conditions of the Platform. MFCentral
will be enabling various features and services in a phased
manner. MFCentral may be accessed using https://mfcentral.
com/and a Mobile App in future.
Any registered user of MFCentral, requiring submission of
physical document as per the requirements of MFCentral, may
do so at any of the DISCs or collection centres of Kfintech
or CAMS. Investors can also fetch their holding statement(s),
Consolidated account statement(s) and can avail nomination
facility through DigiLocker mechanism whereby DigiLocker
Nominee/s can then access the digital information of the
deceased DigiLocker user, through the nominee’s own DigiLocker
account after authentication.
TRANSACTIONS THROUGH MF UTILITY (“MFU”)
The AMC has entered into an Agreement with MF Utilities
India Private Limited (“MFUI”), a “Category II - Registrar to an
Issue” under SEBI (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer
Agents) Regulations, 1993, for usage of MF Utility (“MFU”) a
“Shared Services” initiative formed by the Asset Management
Companies of SEBI registered Mutual Funds under the aegis
of Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). MFU acts as
a transaction aggregation portal for enabling transaction in
multiple Schemes of various Mutual Funds with a single form
and a single payment instrument. Both financial and non-
financial transactions pertaining to Scheme(s) of HDFC Mutual
Fund (‘the Fund’) can be done through MFU at the authorized
Points of Service (“POS”) of MFUI. The details of POS with effect
from the respective dates published on MFU website at www.
mfuindia.com will be considered as Official Point of Acceptance
(OPA) for transactions in the Scheme(s) of the Fund.
Additionally, such transactions can also be carried out
electronically on the online transaction portal of MFU at www.
mfuonline.com as and when such a facility is made available by
MFUI and that the same will be considered OPA for transactions
in the Scheme(s) of the Fund.
The key features of MFU are:
1. Investors will be required to obtain Common Account
Number (“CAN”) for transacting through MFU.
2. Investors can create a CAN by submitting the CAN
Registration Form (CRF) and necessary documents at the
Point of Service (POS) of MFUI. HDFC AMC and/or CAMS,
Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Fund shall provide
necessary details to MFUI as may be needed for providing
the required services to investors/distributors through MFU.
3. Investors will be allotted a CAN, a single reference number
for all investments across Mutual Funds, for transacting in
multiple Schemes of various Mutual Funds through MFU
and to map existing folios, if any.
4. Currently, the transactions facilitated through MFU for the
investors are:
(i) CAN registration;
(ii) Submission of documents to KRAs for KYC Registration;
(iii) Financial transactions like Purchases, Redemptions and
Switches, Registration of Systematic Transactions like
Systematic Investments (SIP) using a single Mandate,
Systematic Withdrawals (SWP) and Systematic Transfers
(STP);
(iv) Non-financial transactions (NFT) like Bank Account
changes, facilitating change of address through KRAs
etc. based on duly signed written requests from the
Investors.
5. The CRF and other relevant forms for transacting through
MFU can be downloaded from MFUI website at www.
mfuindia.com or can be obtained from MFUI POS.
6. Investors transacting through MFU shall be deemed to have
consented to exchange of information viz. personal and/
or financial (including the changes, if any) between the
Fund/HDFC AMC and MFUI and/or its authorized service
providers for validation and processing of transactions
carried out through MFU.
7. For details on carrying out the transactions through MFU
or any queries or clarifications related to MFU, investors
are requested to contact the Customer Care of MFUI on
1800-266-1415 (during the business hours on all days
except Sunday and Public Holidays) or send an email to
clientservices@mfuindia.com. Investors of the Fund can
also get in touch with Investor Service Centres (ISCs) of
HDFC AMC to know more about MFU.
8. For any escalations and post-transaction queries pertaining
to Scheme(s) of the Fund, the Investors are requested to
get in touch with the ISCs of HDFC AMC.
The transactions carried out through MFU shall be subject to
the terms & conditions as may be stipulated by MFUI/Fund/
HDFC AMC from time to time. The terms & conditions of
offering of the Scheme(s) of the Fund as specified in the Scheme
Information Document (SID), Key Information Memorandum
(‘KIM’) and Statement of Additional Information (‘SAI’) shall
be applicable to transactions through MFU.
Default Scenarios available to the investors under Plans/
Options of the Schemes:
All schemes (except Exchange Traded Funds) offer Direct and
Regular Plan to the investors for investments.
Direct Plan is for investors who wish to invest directly without
routing the investment through any distributor.
Regular Plan is for investors who wish to route their investment
through any distributor.
Investors should indicate the Plan viz. Regular/Direct for
which the subscription is made by indicating the choice in the
appropriate box provided for this purpose in the application
form. In case of valid applications received without indicating
any choice of Plan, the application will be processed for the
Plan as under:

78
HDFC MF SAI - dated June 30, 2025
Scenario ARN Code
mentioned by
the investor
Plan mentioned
by the investor
Default Plan to
be captured
1 Not mentioned Not mentioned Direct Plan
2 Not mentioned Direct Direct Plan
3 Not mentioned Regular Direct Plan
4 Mentioned Direct Direct Plan
5 Direct Not Mentioned Direct Plan
6 Direct Regular Direct Plan
7 Mentioned Regular Regular Plan
8 Mentioned Not Mentioned Regular Plan
In cases of wrong/invalid/incomplete ARN codes are mentioned
on the application form, the application shall be processed
under Regular Plan. The AMC shall contact and obtain the
correct ARN code within 30 calendar days of the receipt of
the application form from the investor/distributor. In case, the
correct code is not received within 30 calendar days, the AMC
shall reprocess the transaction under Direct Plan from the date
of application without any exit load.
In case an investor submits an application with ARN number
which is valid, but the broker/distributor is not empanelled with
the AMC, the transaction will be processed under “Direct Plan”
or in the manner notified by SEBI/AMFI from time to time.
The financial transactions# of an investor where his distributor’s
AMFI Registration Number (ARN) has been suspended
temporarily or terminated permanently received during the
suspension period shall be processed under “Direct Plan” and
continue to be processed under “Direct Plan” perpetually unless
after suspension of ARN is revoked, unitholder makes a written
request to process the future installments/investments under
“Regular Plan”. Any financial transactions requests received
through the stock exchange platform, from any distributor
whose ARN has been suspended, shall be rejected.
# Financial Transactions shall include all Purchase/Switch
requests (including under fresh registrations of Systematic
Investment Plan (“SIP”)/Systematic Transfer Plan (“STP”) or
under SIPs/STPs registered prior to the suspension period).
Treatment of transactions received under Regular Plan
with invalid ARN
Transactions received in Regular Plan with Invalid ARN shall be
processed in Direct Plan of the same Scheme (even if reported
in Regular Plan), applying the below logic:
Transaction
Type
Primary ARN SUB distributor
ARN
EUIN* Execution
Only
Mentioned
Regular
Plan/
Direct
PlanValid Invalid Empan-
elled
Valid Invalid Valid Yes
Lump Sum Y Y Y Regular
Registration Y N Not applicable Direct
Y Y N.A. N.A. N.A. N Regular*
Y Y Y Y Regular
Y Direct
Y Y Y Y Regular
Y Y Y Direct
Trigger Y Not applicable Regular
Y Not applicable Direct
“Invalid ARNs” shall include the following situations:–
1. ARN validity period expired
2. ARN cancelled/terminated
3. ARN suspended
4. ARN Holder deceased
5. Nomenclature change, as required pursuant to IA
Regulations, not complied by the MFD
6. MFD is debarred by SEBI
7. ARN not present in AMFI ARN database
8. ARN not empanelled with an AMC
VII.RIGHTS OF UNITHOLDERS OF THE
SCHEME
● Unit holders of the Scheme have a proportionate right in
the beneficial ownership of the assets of the Scheme.
● When the Mutual Fund declares a an Income Distribution
cum Capital Withdrawal (IDCW)/dividend under a
Scheme, the IDCW/dividend warrants shall be transferred/
despatched to the Unitholders within 7 working days from
the record date of such declaration of IDCW/dividend or
such other timeline as may be prescribed by SEBI from
time to time. In the event of failure to transfer IDCW/
dividend within the stipulated period, the AMC shall be
liable to pay interest @ 15% per annum on the delayed
payment to the Unitholders for the delay in payment as
computed from the Record Date or from such other date
or for such period as may be advised by SEBI from time
to time.
● On acceptance of a valid application/transaction request
for Purchase (including SIP instalments), Switch, Redemption,
STP , SWP , IDCW/Dividend reinvestment , an allotment
confirmation specifying the number of units allotted by
way of email and/or SMS within 5 working days from the
date of receipt of application/transaction request/closure
of New Fund Offer (NFO) shall be sent to the Unit holders
registered e-mail address and/or mobile number (whether
units are held in demat mode or in account statement
form).
a) For Unitholders having any security in Dematerialised
form and having Mutual Fund (MF) folios:
(i) The depositories shall dispatch the Securities
Consolidated Account Statement (SCAS) within
– 12 days from the month end where there are
transactions either in MF or Demat account based
on the data provided by MF Registrar & Transfer
Agent (RTA) in respect of MF units;
(i) In case of no transactions in either MF or Demat
account, SCAS shall be sent on a Half- yearly basis
showing the holding details by the Depositories.
b) For investors having only mutual fund folios and no
Demat account a Consolidated Account Statement
(CAS) shall be sent within 15 days from the month
end where there are transactions by mail/e-mail by
the AMC/RTA.
c) Half-yearly CAS shall be issued to all investors providing
the prescribed details across all schemes of mutual
funds and securities held in dematerialized form across
demat accounts, if applicable, at the end of every six
months (i.e. September/March) on or before 18th day

HDFC MF SAI - dated June 30, 2025
161
For instance: If the investment amount is Rs. 100,000, the stamp
duty will be calculated as follows: (Investment Amount *0.005)
= Rs. 5. If the applicable Net Asset Value (NAV) is Rs. 10 per
unit, then units allotted will be calculated as follows: (Investment
Amount - Stamp Duty)/ Applicable NAV = 9,999.50 units.
X. DISCLOSURE AND REPORTS BY THE
FUND:
1) Account Statements/Consolidated Account Statement
1. An allotment confirmation specifying the units allotted
shall be sent by way of email and/or SMS within 5
working days of the closure of the NFO Period/date of
receipt of valid request during continuous offer period
to the Unit holder's registered e-mail address and/
or mobile number (whether units are held in demat
mode or in account statement form).
2. The holding(s) of the beneficiary account holder
for units held in demat mode will be shown in the
statement issued by respective Depository Participants
(DPs) periodically.
3. A Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) detailing all the
transactions across all mutual funds and holdings at the
end of the month and securities held in dematerialized
form across demat accounts, if applicable shall be
sent to the Unit holders in whose folio(s) transaction(s)
have taken place during the month on registered email
address on or before 12th of the succeeding month
and by 15th of the succeeding month for those who
have opted for physical copy.
4. Half-yearly CAS shall be issued to all investors providing
the prescribed details across all schemes of mutual
funds and securities held in dematerialized form across
demat accounts, if applicable, at the end of every six
months (i.e. September/March) on or before 18th day
of succeeding month on registered email address and
21st day of succeeding month through physical copy
for those who do not have registered email addresses.
5. Half yearly CAS will not be sent to those Unit holders
who do not have any holdings in the schemes of
mutual fund and where no commission against their
investment has been paid to distributors, during the
concerned half-year period.
6. The periodical CAS will be sent by the Depositories
to investors holding demat accounts (whether or not
units are held in demat form) referred to as “SCAS”
and by Mutual Fund Industry to other investors referred
to as “MF-CAS”.
7. The periodical CAS are issued on the basis of Permanent
Account Number (PAN). Thus, CAS shall not be received
by the Unit holders for the folios not updated with
PAN. Unit holders are therefore requested to ensure
that the folios are updated with their PAN/KYC details.
8. For folios of the Fund not included in the CAS (due
to non-availability of PAN), the AMC shall issue the
necessary account statements within prescribed timeline
by mail or email.
9. In the event the account has more than one registered
holder, the first named Unit holder shall receive the
CAS/account statement.
10. The Unit holder may request for a physical account
statement without any charges by writing to/calling the
AMC/ISC/RTA. The Mutual Fund/AMC shall despatch
an account statement within 5 working days from the
date of the receipt of request from the Unit holder.
Pursuant to, clauses 14.4.3 and 11.3 of Master Circular,
the following additional disclosures will be provided in the
CAS issued to the investors:
● Each CAS/SCAS shall also provide the total purchase
value/cost of investment in each scheme. Further,
whenever distributable surplus is distributed, a clear
segregation between income distribution (appreciation
on NAV) and capital distribution (Equalization Reserve)
shall be suitably disclosed.
● CAS/SCAS issued for the half-year (ended September/
March) shall also provide (i) the amount of actual
commission paid by the AMC/Fund to distributors (in
absolute terms) during the half-year period, and (ii) the
scheme’s average Total Expense Ratio (in percentage
terms) along with the break up between Investment
and Advisory fees, Commission paid to the distributor
and Other expenses for the half-year period for the
scheme’s applicable Option (regular or direct or both)
where the concerned investor has actually invested in.
● The term ‘commission’ refers to all direct monetary
payments and other payments made in the form of
gifts/rewards, trips, event sponsorships etc. by the
AMC/Fund to distributors. The commission disclosed is
gross commission and does not exclude costs incurred
by distributors such as Goods & Service Tax (wherever
applicable, as per existing rates), operating expenses, etc.
Further information pertaining to SCAS sent by
Depositories:
● CAS shall be dispatched by the Depositories/MFs as
per the rules specified by SEBI from time to time.
2) Half Yearly Disclosures/Portfolio Disclosures/Financial
Results
Fortnightly Disclosures (applicable to open-ended
debt schemes)
The AMC will disclose portfolio (along with ISIN and other
prescribed details) of the Scheme, in the prescribed format,
on fortnightly basis on its website viz. www.hdfcfund.
com and on the website of Association of Mutual Funds
in India (AMFI) viz. www.amfiindia.com within 5 days of
every fortnight.
Monthly and Half yearly Disclosures
The AMC will disclose portfolio (along with ISIN and other
prescribed details) of the Scheme, in the prescribed format,
as on the last day of the month/half-year i.e. March 31
and September 30, on its website viz. www.hdfcfund.com
and on the website of Association of Mutual Funds in
India (AMFI) viz. www.amfiindia.com within 10 days from
the close of each month/half-year respectively. In case of
unitholders whose e-mail addresses are registered, the
Mutual Fund/AMC will send via email both the monthly
and half-yearly statement of scheme portfolio within 10
days from the close of each month/half-year respectively.
AMC will publish an advertisement every half-year in the all
India edition of at least two daily newspapers, one each in
English and Hindi, disclosing the hosting of the half-yearly
statement of the Scheme portfolio on its website and on
the website of Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).
AMC will provide a physical copy of the statement of its